One limitation from this dataset is that the data collected is form the 2014-2015 school year. This limits the conclusions and statements that we can make surrounding the public school system in the United States, as we don't have the must up to date information. With that being said, neighborhoods and generational wealth typically don't change overnight, and thus we feel confident that the conclusions we draw will still be relevant to our study.

Another limitation with our data is that SAT score is subjective and is not a measure of intelligence. Similarly, many "smart" people struggle with test taking, and these scores are not an accurate depiction of how well they do in school, nor do they account for the extracurriculars or family situations certain students deal with on a daily basis. We will keep this in mind as we conduct our research and work to separate intelligence from how well these schools prepare their students.

The dataset that we are diving into and the questions we are trying to answer can have vast implications for the future of education around the country. This dataset will help us to understand the impacts of inequitable funding and racial discrimination on the United States public schooling system. SAT scores may seem like just a number, but in reality, they can open, and just as easily close, doors for many students. Understanding who scores what, and from where, allows us to observe the importance of resource allocation and funding, which is important for policymakers and politicians to see. By giving this information to policymakers, we can work to make public schooling more equitable, and a person's zip code not a determinant of their future. Undertaking this project, we hope to bring awareness to the discrimination in education that has been plaguing the United States for centuries. The current funding system on the United States public school system, ensures that community wealth disparities carry over into education. We hope, that with this information, policymakers can begin to make changes that will allow equal opportunities for all people.